Rewrite some sections of the website to make it more comprehensive (#144)
TypeScriptToLua/TypeScriptToLua.github.io: docs/advanced/writing-declarations.md

title: Writing Declarations
---

The best way to use TypeScript is to provide it with information about the format/types of the external functions and variables that you will be using (specific to your environment). This allows the compiler to check your code for mistakes when compiling, instead of having to run the code to find issues. To give TypeScript this information, you will need to provide it with type declarations. You can write these declarations yourself or, if available, install an existing type declarations package for your environment from npm.

For more information about installing existing type definition packages, see the [getting started page](getting-started.md#type-declarations).

This page has more information about how to write your own type declarations. This can be tricky, so if you need help, feel free to [join our Discord server](https://discord.gg/BWAq58Y).

## About Declaration Files

> Declaration files end with the extension `.d.ts` (which stands for "declaration TypeScript file"). Declaration files are different from normal `.ts` files in that they must only contain _ambient_ code. In the context of TypeScript, _ambient_ refers to code that not emitted into the actual program output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declaration files end with the extension `.d.ts` (which stands for "declaration TypeScript file"). Declaration files are different from normal `.ts` files in that they must only contain _ambient_ code. In the context of TypeScript, _ambient_ refers to code that only exists at compile-time and is not emitted into the program output.
```
